RESULT - 15%
Files Description:
The House_Prices_AI.py file contains code to execute a machine learning algorithm on the datasets downloaded from kaggle.com,
specifically in the house prices regression competition. The train.csv file is the training data. The test.csv file is the data on which
the algorithm is run to predict results. These results are stored in HousePricesSubmission.csv file which when uploaded on
kaggle gives a score. The gender_submission.csv file is an example file to upload as submission.

Plan of Attack Step 1 - Exploratory Data Analysis:
Before we start anything, we must identify if all data given to us serve as predictors for the outcome. For this, we use
exploratory data analysis. We take each feature and using the various plot libraries available in Python, we see the
significance of each feature on the outcome. We also check the test data to see if there is any data that is not present
in the training data.
Since there are a lot of features to manually type out here, I will simply mention that the same process was used. Categorical
features that were seen to have a higher impact on the prediction were assigned a higher number than the others. For example, in
the functional category, Typ3 was seen to be predicting higher house prices followed by Maj2 and then everything else roughly
around the same. Hence, Typ3 was assigned the number 3, Maj2 2 and everything else as 1.

Now, we have a lot of useful information and we can move onto step 2.

Plan of Attack Step 2 - Data Preprocessing:
Again, because of the presence of a lot of features, I will simply mention that the usual techniques were used. For features with
20% or less missing data, either the most occuring value (for categorical features) or the mean of values (for numeric features)
was used to fill up the missing entries. For features with more than 20% missing data, these were deleted.

Plan of Attack Step 3 - Encoding Categorical Data:
Encoding categorical data was done similar to past projects, based on trends observed in Exploratory Data Analysis. However, I
made a very crucial mistake here that has not been fixed yet. I used one-hot encoding for certain features but forgot to take
into account how it would change the column indices. This is why my score is so low. This will take a lot of time to fix so
its on hold for now.

Plan of Attack Step 4 - Preprocessing and Encoding Test Data:
Similar to what we did for the train.csv data, we follow the exact same approach to convert the data from test.csv into proper
formatting. I prefer to do this before moving on to selecting the model because I want to get the boring stuff over with once
and for all.

Plan of Attack Step 5 - Splitting the dataset into the training and test set
An 80-20 standard split was used to split the data into training and test set.

Plan of Attack Step 6 - Feature Scale the data
Since this is a regression problem, there is no need to feature scale the data since the weights that will be assigned will take care of
any biases on features.

Plan of Attack Step 7 - Train multiple classification models on the data and pick the one with the highest accuracy
These classification models were used - Logistic Regression, kNN, SVM, Naive Bayes and Random Forest. The confusion matrices
were constructed for each of these and it was observed that Random Forest gave the highest accuracy. Hence, that was chosen to predict
data on the test.csv file

Plan of Attack Step 8 - Maximize learning
With Random Forest chosen, it was now trained on 100% of the training data. Because the existing classifier was trained on only 80% of
data hence to get better results, it needed to be trained on all of the available data.

Plan of Attack Step 9 - Run the classifier on the test.csv data and get results
The Random Forest classifier was now run on the test.csv data and the results were stored in the TitanicSubmission.csv file, ready for
submission to kaggle. The result was an impressive accuracy of 78%.

